+++
draft = false
title = 'religion'
description = "my thoughts on present religion, digressing to politics and critical thinking as appropriate"
+++

    -- areligiousity --
i believe that [abrahamic religions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abrahamic_religions) do not serve the greatest public good at this time. historically, there were arguments to be made that religions were restricting socially harmful behaviours (such as recreational sex, eating animals which were observed to cause illness, etc) and contributing to arguably altruistic causes (education, assistance to the impoverished, medicine). after centuries of study, they have now found themselves entirely in opposition with science and continue working to unduly restrict human autonomy through conspiracy theorism and propaganda, maintain medieval power structures, and discourage critical thinking. i believe that religion also shares significant responsibility for the election of trump - minimally, [certain religious identities are strongly correlated with trump, low intellect, hateful ideologies, and conservatism](https://doi.org/10.1111%2Fssqu.12906). this is obviously not to suggest that all religious people or sects fall under those umbrellas, but rather to bring about an important observation: organized religion is used to influence the core beliefs and actions of aherents, which can be incredibly dangerous and often neuters doubt and nuance, two of the pillars of critical thought. it allows people to build their entire world view based on an unfalsifable hypothesis, providing an illusory foundation upon which to build a bubble or echo chamber. 

at the most basic level, mysticism is a coping mechanism to deal with our unanswered questions about life, the future, and the universe. it has been monetized, used and abused by organized religions to exert power and control in various ways and through various means, taking advantage of one of our deepest vulnerabilities. there is nothing wrong with needing a coping mechanism, with talking to the universe and asking for things to be made easier, in finding comfort and security and community to deal with the mind-bending reality of being a tiny, meaningless creature on an incomprehensibly enormous rock floating through an even more incomprehensibly enormous void for no apparent reason. there is, however, real and present danger to allowing religious institutions to shape the beliefs of yourself or your children through a curated and drip-fed selection of information designed to placate and cajole you into parasitic systems designed to suck you dry, indirectly funding the extravagant lifestyles of the rich. i don't think the system is broken - i think it's functioning exactly as intended.

    -- ideas --

while i would certainly prefer to live in a politically and scientifically modernized world free from religion, i don't believe that such a world ever can - or should - exist. much of the beauty in humanity grows between the cracks of our differences and upon the shoulders of that which is not so lovely; true kindness typically arises from a mixture of struggle and guidance, and not every member of a society can be cognizant. so, i propose a few thought experiments to independantly explore; what would happen if a collective action were taken to:

1. gradually remodel religious institutions, shepherding adherents toward more scientific, accepting views (and votes) while keeping the coping mechanism intact. a portion of religious institutions already take a similar tack, preaching the kindness with the hook removed. this has proven itself a somewhat effective method, just very slow. 

2. expedite the chaos. allow people to feel the harsh consequences of their vote by permitting the destruction of the systems which we all rely upon to happen as quickly as possible. the longer slow chipping continues, the more resources are wasted squabbling while power continues to be consolidated in the hands of authoritarian government. if we have already passed the point of no return, is society crumbling more quickly of a long-term benefit?

3. abandon the high ground. implement counter-propaganda, working to externally slightly shift the pre-existing alienations from groups with inalterable characteristics to the ultra-rich and ruling classes. 

(none of these are necessarily realistic or useful and are very america-centric, as i am unfortunately a resident of america)

    -- think for yourself --
if you want to be an engine of positive change, here is what i have to say: challenge your beliefs at every step. work to correct thinking errors and inadequacies in your own opinions when you find them - and don't be afraid to admit fault when others identify them for you. truth is bolstered by systematic, evidence-based attacks from diverse perspectives; lies feed on complacency, blind faith, and fear. first, you must learn - learn how to learn, learn how to think, learn how to doubt, learn how to communicate, learn how to be wrong, and learn how to change. learning to change means learning to leave what you once held dear, to embrace what you once found disgusting, to love what you once saw as hate, to accept that which you can never understand, to show kindness to that which annoys you most, and to fail at all of it constantly. the scariest part of learning about the world is learning about yourself, seeing things within that you once believed reserved for the most hateful characters of history. uncovering that which the deepest part of you clings to with desperation, begging to live in the comparative bliss of ignorance, insisting that you've already found the truth, screaming that *they* are the problem, *they* hate you, *they* want to see everything you love destroyed. hitler's voice screamed that the problem was the blacks, the jews, the slavs, the left-wingers, the socialists - people he found most inferior, intellectually or otherwise; mine screams that it is the centrists, the right-wingers, the religious, and the capitalists. those voices are not entirely wrong, but they are also not entirely correct. every opinion carries within it a small but meaningful kernel of truth - disconfigured or misapplied as it may be - and sifting through mountains of garbage to correctly identify it is a tolling activity that i struggle to apply adequate value to every single day. perhaps everything i think is wrong, but we should all agree on two things: critical analysis of our reality can only bring us collectively closer to the truth, and listening to that little voice is never the right decision.

if you want to sacrifice your time and happiness in pursuit of a better future for people you will never meet - or even just a better understanding of the world - dm me cuz i barely even know where to begin. 

    -- or don't --
if you want to live a happy, peaceful life entirely removed from the tumultuous battles of politics and social change, i enviously bid you the best of luck, asking only one thing: find multiple intelligent people around you who *are* invested in making life better, ask them who to vote for, and listen. an uneducated vote is the only thing worse than no vote at all. 

[international right to ridicule religion](https://humanists.international/get-involved/resources/the-rights-of-non-religious-people/)